docs(docs): workspace builder (#3057)
nrwl/nx: docs/shared/tools-workspace-builders.md

---

> NOTE:

Author: I'll remove the not for now. Will see about implementing this with Juri

This guide serves as our recommendations on best practices for the interim.

---

# Creating Builders in Your Nx Workspace

Creating builders for your workspace is a way to standardize scripts that you may run during your development/building/deploying tasks that integrates in with the powerful Angular architect API.

This guide will show you how and create, run and customize builders within your Nx workspace. In the examples, we'll use the trivial use-case of an `echo` command.

## Creating a Builder

Your builder should be created within the `tools` directory of your Nx workspace like so:

```treeview
happynrwl/
├── apps/
├── libs/
├── tools/
│   └── builders/
│       └── echo/
│           ├── builder.json
│           ├── impl.ts
│           ├── package.json
│           └── schema.json
├── nx.json
├── package.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

### schema.json

This file will describe the options being sent to the builder (very similar to the `schema.json` file of schematics).

```json
{
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/schema",
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "textToEcho": {
      "type": "string",

>       "description": "Text To Echo",

Author: ```suggestion
      "description": "Text To Echo"
```

Also note that [Node’s `childProcess`](https://nodejs.org/api/child_process.html) is used here which will often be used in most use cases.

Part of the power of the architect API is the ability to compose builders via JS functional composition, where you can combine other builders from your workspace into one which could be helpful when the process you’re scripting is a combination of other existing builders provided by the CLI or other custom-builders in your workspace.

### builder.json

The `builder.json` file provides the description of your builder to the CLI.

```json
{
  "builders": {
    "echo": {
      "implementation": "./impl",
      "schema": "./schema.json",
      "description": "Runs `echo` (to test builders out)."
    }
  }
}
```

Note that this `builder.json` file is naming our builder 'echo' for the CLI's purposes, and maping that name to the given implemetation file and schema.

### package.json

This is all that’s required from the `package.json` file:

```json
{
  "builders": "./builder.json"
}
```

## Compiling and Running your Builder

> After your files are created, you can compile your builder with `tsc`:

Reviewer: Maybe add a note here that `tsc` is available if you've installed typescript globally

```sh
tsc tools/builders/echo/impl
```

This will create the `impl.js` file in your file directory, which will serve as the artifact used by the CLI.

> Our last step is to add this builder to a given project’s `architect` object your project's `workspace.json` or `angular.json` file. See the example below for adding this builder to a project named 'platform':

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our last step is to add this builder to a given project’s `architect` object in your project's `workspace.json` or `angular.json` file. The example below adds this builder to a project named 'platform':
```

```json
{
  //...
  "projects": {
    "platform": {
      //...
      "architect": {
        "build": {
          // ...
        },
        "serve": {
          // ...
        },
        "lint": {
          // ,,,
        },
        "echo": {
          "builder": "./tools/builders/echo:echo",
          "options": {
            "textToEcho": "Hello World"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> Note that the format of the `builder` string here is: `${Path to builder directory}:${builder name}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the format of the `builder` string here is: `${Path to directory containing the builder's package.json}:${builder name}`.
```

This guide serves as our recommendations on best practices for the interim.

---

# Creating Builders in Your Nx Workspace

Creating builders for your workspace is a way to standardize scripts that you may run during your development/building/deploying tasks that integrates in with the powerful Angular architect API.

This guide will show you how and create, run and customize builders within your Nx workspace. In the examples, we'll use the trivial use-case of an `echo` command.

## Creating a Builder

Your builder should be created within the `tools` directory of your Nx workspace like so:

```treeview
happynrwl/
├── apps/
├── libs/
├── tools/
│   └── builders/
│       └── echo/
│           ├── builder.json
│           ├── impl.ts
│           ├── package.json
│           └── schema.json
├── nx.json
├── package.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

### schema.json

This file will describe the options being sent to the builder (very similar to the `schema.json` file of schematics).

```json
{
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/schema",
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "textToEcho": {
      "type": "string",
      "description": "Text To Echo",

>       "$default": {

Author: ```suggestion
```

>         "$source": "argv",

Author: ```suggestion
```

>         "index": 0

Author: ```suggestion
```

>       }

Author: ```suggestion
```
